---
layout: post
title:  "PMDA: Privacy-preserving multi-functional data aggregation without TTP in smart grid"
file:  
date:   2016-11-15 17:07:19
authors: S. Pan, <strong>S. Yan</strong>, Y. Zheng, and W.-T. Zhu
pub: 12th ACM Symposium on Information, Computer and Communications Security (AsiaCCS'17)
page:
categories: post
status: (Under Review)
comments: true
---
<big><strong>Abstract:</strong></big><br>
<p>In the smart grid, residents’ electricity usage needs to be periodically measured and reported for the purpose of better
energy management. At the same time, real-time collection of residents’ electricity consumption may unfavorably
incur privacy leakage, which has motivated the research on
privacy-preserving aggregation of electricity readings. Most
previous studies either rely on a trusted third party (TTP)
or suffer from expensive computation. In this paper, we
first reveal the privacy flaws of a very recent scheme pursing privacy preservation without relying on the TTP. By
presenting concrete attacks, we show that this scheme has
failed to meet the design goals. Then, for better privacy
protection, we construct a new scheme called PMDA, which
utilizes Shamir’s secret sharing to allow smart meters to negotiate aggregation parameters in the absence of a TTP.
Using only lightweight cryptography, PMDA efficiently supports multi-functional aggregation of the electricity readings, and simultaneously preserves residents’ privacy. Theoretical analysis is provided with regard to PMDA’s security
and efficiency. Moreover, experimental data obtained from a
prototype indicates that our proposal is efficient and feasible
for practical deployment.</p>
<big><strong>Key Words:</strong></big><br>
<p>Privacy preserving, Data aggregation, Smart grid, Multifunctional computation, Security analysis</p>