---
layout: post
title:  "PMDA: Privacy-preserving multi-functional data aggregation without TTP in smart grid"
date:   2016-09-10 12:07:19
authors: S. Pan, Y. Zheng, <strong>S. Yan</strong>, and W.-T. Zhu
pub: 18th International Conference on Information and Communication Security (ICICS'16)
page:
categories: [tutorial]
status: (Under Review)
comments: true
---
<big><strong>Abstract:</strong></big><br>
<p>
In the smart grid, residents' electricity usage needs to be periodically measured and reported for the purpose 
of better energy management. At the same time, real-time collection of residents' electricity consumption may 
unfavorably incur privacy leakage, which has motivated the research on privacy-preserving aggregation of electricity 
readings. Most previous studies either rely on a trusted third party (TTP) or suffer from expensive computation. 
In this paper, we propose a scheme called PMDA, which utilizes Shamir's secret sharing to allow smart meters to 
negotiate aggregation parameters in the absence of a TTP. Then, using only lightweight cryptography, PMDA efficiently 
supports multi-functional aggregation of the electricity readings, and simultaneously preserves residents' privacy. 
Theoretical analysis is provided with regard to PMDA's security and efficiency. Moreover, experimental data obtained 
from a prototype indicates that our proposal is efficient and feasible for practical deployment. On a technically 
related note, we also review a comparable scheme proposed very recently and reveal certain privacy breaches by presenting a novel attack.
</p>

<big><strong>Key Words:</strong></big><br>
<p>Privacy preserving; Data aggregation; Smart grid; Multi-functional computation; Security analysis</p>